LABS

During the Red Hat exams, the tasks will be presented electronically. Therefore, this book presents most of the labs electronically as well. For more information, see the Lab Questions section toward the end of Chapter 10. Most of the labs for this chapter are straightforward and require a very few commands or changes to one or two configuration files.


Lab 1

In this lab, you'll set up a GPG key pair, and test the result on the 56510-labs.txt file. This lab requires the use of two different systems. The server1.example.com and tester1.example.com systems are ideal for this purpose.

1. On the server1.example.com system, copy the 56510-labs.txt file to a regular user home directory.

2. On the tester1.example.com system, create a private-public key pair using RSA encryption.

3. Copy the public key to the server1.example.com system, and then import it.

4. Encrypt the 56510-labs.txt file.

5. Copy the encrypted file to the tester1.example.com system.

6. Decrypt the 56510-labs.txt file on the tester1.example.com system.


Lab 2

Think about bastion systems. One implicit lesson of this chapter is to minimize what's installed. In other words, if it isn't installed, a cracker can't take advantage of it. This lab uses the rpm commands discussed in Chapter 7. While that is a RHCSA topic, those are fundamental skills for RHCEs. Strictly speaking, this lab does not directly address any RHCE objectives. So if you're pressed for time, skip this lab. But it does point to a fundamental way to keep a RHEL 6 system secure.

To that end, review the current contents of the /etc/init.d directory. It's a handy reference point for currently installed services. Don't uninstall anything at this time. If you don't recognize a script in the /etc/init.d directory, identify the associated package. For example, to identify the package associated with the abrtd script in that directory, run the following command:

$ rpm -qf /etc/init.d/abrtd

That identifies the abrt RPM package. To learn more about that package, run the following command:

$ rpm -qi abrt

You don't need all of the services shown in the /etc/init.d directory. Save the results in a text file. For example, I'd include the following scripts from that directory as potential packages to remove:

abrtd
atd
avahi
bluetooth


Lab 3

You want to configure a firewall to accommodate a secure Web server that supports inbound requests to both the regular and secure Web server protocols. The system should also accept remote communications to the local SSH server. What do you do?


Lab 4

You want to set up Telnet service on your internal LAN, accessible only to one specific IP address. You want to block access from outside the LAN. Assume that your LAN's network address is 192.168.122.0, and the IP address of the computer that should get access is 192.168.122.150. For the purpose of this lab, feel free to substitute the IP address of a second Linux computer on the local network. What do you do?


Lab 5

You want to use TCP Wrappers to limit access to the local SSH server. First, what do you do to confirm that SSH can be protected by TCP Wrappers? Once you’ve done so, make needed changes to make sure the SSH server on the server1.example.com system can be accessed only from the tester1.example.com system.


Lab 6

This lab assumes you've installed the vsFTP server as discussed in Chapter 1. While the basic installation of an FTP file server is an RHCSA skill, detailed configuration is an RHCE skill discussed in Chapter 16. The focus of this lab starts with the /etc/vsftpd/ftpusers file. As noted in that file, it's a list of users who are not allowed to log in to the local vsFTP server. For security, it's an excellent idea to retain the /etc/vsftpd/ftpusers file.

The objective of this lab is to configure and limit access through the FTP server to one regular user account.
