LABS

During the Red Hat exams, the tasks will be presented electronically. Therefore, this book presents most of the labs electronically as well. For more information, see the Lab Questions section toward the end of Chapter 16. Most of the labs for this chapter are straightforward and require a very few commands or changes to one or two configuration files.


Lab 1: Basic NFS Configuration

You'll need two Linux computers for this lab: one as an NFS server, and a second as an NFS client. Call these computers server1.example.com and tester1.example.com. Configure a directory named /shared. Add a single file to that directory. Start by configuring rules to share that directory with the no_root_squash directive. For any firewall that's configured, make sure to limit access to the example.com network. If you followed the instructions in Chapter 1, that would be the 192.168.122.0/24 network.

Go to the remote system, and make sure that you're able to view shared NFS directories from the server. Mount that system on a local /testing directory. Can you copy files to that directory?

Unmount the share, and remove the no_root_squash directive. What happens when you mount the NFS share for a second time from the client?


Lab 2: Standard NFS Configuration

This lab can use the same two systems used in Lab 1. On the server, share the /home directories and provide write permissions to the client computer. On the client, set up the /home directory from the NFS server to be mounted the next time that client computer is booted. Since the client computer probably already has a /home directory, set it up on the /remote directory.


Lab 3: NFS and SELinux

In this lab, you'll experiment with different SELinux settings. For example, if you're asked to prevent writes to any shared NFS directories, what do you do?


Lab 4: Configure a vsFTP Server with Messages

Configure an FTP server on the server1.example.com system. Enable messages when users access the local /var/ftp and /var/ftp/pub directories. Add an appropriate one-line message to each directory. Test the result, preferably from a remote computer. Start the vsFTP server and see that it starts automatically the next time the server1.example.com system is rebooted.


Lab 5: Configure a vsFTP server for Anonymous-only Downloads

Make sure to allow only anonymous access. Don't allow anonymous users to upload to that server.


Lab 6: Configure a vsFTP server on a special directory

Do not run this lab on the vsFTP server configured in Chapter 1 for installation. The changes made in this lab would override changes made in Chapter 7 to ease the installation of new packages.

In this lab, you'll set up the vsFTP server for anonymous access to read and download files from the local /ftp directory. You can allow the vsFTP server to ignore the /var/ftp directory for this lab.

